
# hhacker

This extension contains the following functions.

## Viewer Hacker
This tool allows to open the viewer with the following 
interceptor and additional function.

The service implements css.task.XJobExecutor interface, so 
it can be called with the following URL: 

    service:foo.bar.hoge.help.HelpHacker?mode=(pootle|omegat)

mode should be one of pootle or omegat.

The mode is passed to the interceptor that tracks 
commands happen on the viewer.


## Search Interceptor
This is the special dispatch interception that tracks 
.uno:FooBarSearch command. Query string of the command 
specifies the location of the string resource. 
The dispatcher instace parse the query and 
convert it to the address for the mode specified. 
Generated address is opened in your web browser for 
Pootle mode. And the request is established for OmegaT 
mode using urllib.

The URL for the dispatch request should be:

    .uno:FooBarSearch?language=TARGET&category=(ui|help)&keyword=KEYWORD

TARGET is ISO code of the target localization. 
category value should be one of ui or help. 
KEYWORD specifies the location for searching.

This kind of URL is generated by the modified main\_transform.xsl filter.

The following values can be set by the main menu - 
Tools - Options - Internet - hhacker page. Restart your office once 
you change these values.

Default values for search request are described as follows. 
For Pootle mode: 
    https://translate.apache.org/{LANG}/{PROJECT}{CATEGORY}/translate.html#sfields=locations&search=KEYWORD
where LANG is replaced with the requested locale, PROJECT specifies 
category in the pootle server, CATEGORY is 
one of "" or help and the location to search for should be 
followed to the address.
For OmegaT mode:
    http://localhost:{PORT}/search/KEYWORD
where PORT is the port that listening by Comment Search 
plug-in for OmegaT.

